pip install groq python-dotenv : This installs groq pre written package as well as loads our api key stored in .env .

client.chat.completions.create(): returns a nested json in the following format which python reads as a dictionairy;
{
  "id": "chatcmpl-12345",
  "object": "chat.completion",
  "created": 1718549823,
  "model": "openai/gpt-oss-20b",
  "choices": [
    {
      "index": 0,
      "message": {
        "role": "assistant",
        "content": "I don't always test my code, but when I do, I do it in production."
      },
      "finish_reason": "stop"
    }
  ],
  "usage": {
    "prompt_tokens": 18,
    "completion_tokens": 15,
    "total_tokens": 33
  }
}
. 

The handling of the response we used response.choices[0].message.content where :
response: The whole package delivered from the cloud.
.choices: A list of possible answers. (By default, the AI only generates one answer, which sits at index 0).
.message: The message object inside that chosen slot.
.content: The actual string of text typed by the AI (your joke!)

API's are stateless: each time a request is sent it follows as a new entry and has no memory.
For this chatbot we want it to be stateful, so we manage the memory locally in python, we make a chatbot statefull by integrating an array called messages , every message is just appended to the array. The same for responses we then
send the entire list. I think this is ineffective . 

There are multiple ways of combating this:
1) Rolling window approach: We keep an array of 10 messages and then drop as we go on eg if message 11 comes through then we drop message 1
2) Summarizer approach: We ask for the AI to summarize the above in 3 bullet points however this will cause a significant amount of data loss. 
3) If we want an advanced AI chatbot we can perhaps use a vector DB that stores all the messages and responses into a DB and a script retrieves the info.

Tokens are a method of billing AI companies use, a token relates to words. 

for version 0.1 we might start implementing the rolling window approach. To do this we will use a python data structure called a deque with a maximum length.
A deque works like a pipe with 10 tennis balls inside of it, once you push in another tennis ball in the last on the side drops out. However there is a prompt we must keep in our pipeline 
which will be the prompt indicating its personality, if that drops the ai loses its core. 

1)We indicate this as a system rule and keep this at index [0] which will be the core personality
2)Then we use dynamic sliding after index[0] with a capped maximum of 10 items 
3)The payload will be the chat history with the system personality at index [0]

This implementation works, However we will be streamlining this:
1) We will be adding a better security framework
2) Updating user friendliness
3) Guarding the personality 